Convert "Reasoning with inductive types" to prodn, part 2 (#14560)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proofs/writing-proofs/reasoning-inductives.rst

.. tacn:: destruct {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

   .. insertprodn induction_clause induction_arg

   .. prodn::
      induction_clause ::= @induction_arg {? as @or_and_intropattern } {? eqn : @naming_intropattern } {? @occurrences }
      induction_arg ::= @natural
      | @one_term_with_bindings

>    Performs case analysis by generating a subgoal for each constructor of the
>    inductive or co-inductive type in the :n:`@one_term` in :n:`@induction_arg`.
>    :n:`@one_term` (or the conclusion of its type--example
>    :ref:`here<example_destruct_ind_concl>`) must be of inductive or co-inductive type.
>    In each new subgoal, the tactic replaces :n:`@one_term` with the associated
>    constructor (applied to its arguments).   Unlike :tacn:`induction`,
>    :tacn:`destruct` generates no induction hypothesis.

Reviewer: Let's change the wording entirely to make this clearer. Something along these lines:

```suggestion
   The main argument must be a term or a premise whose type is an inductive or
   co-inductive type (or a product type whose conclusion is an inductive or
   co-inductive type). This tactic performs case analysis by generating a subgoal
   for each constructor of the inductive or co-inductive type. Unlike
   :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct` generates no induction hypothesis.
```

Then, you could insert the bullet-list explaining the various ways that the main argument can be provided.

Author: OK, surgery complete.  Let me know what you think.

.. tacn:: destruct {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

   .. insertprodn induction_clause induction_arg

   .. prodn::
      induction_clause ::= @induction_arg {? as @or_and_intropattern } {? eqn : @naming_intropattern } {? @occurrences }
      induction_arg ::= @one_term_with_bindings
      | @natural

   Performs case analysis by generating a subgoal for each constructor of the
   inductive or co-inductive type selected by :n:`@induction_arg`.  The selected
   subterm, after possibly doing an :tacn:`intros`, must have
   an inductive or co-inductive type.  Unlike :tacn:`induction`,
   :n:`destruct` generates no induction hypothesis.

   In each new subgoal, the tactic replaces the selected subterm with the associated
   constructor (applied to its arguments).

   :n:`{+, @induction_clause }`
     Giving multiple :n:`@induction_clause`\s is equivalent to applying :n:`destruct`
     serially on each :n:`@induction_clause`.

>    :n:`@induction_arg`
>      + If :n:`@one_term` (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
>        is an identifier :n:`@ident` denoting a quantified variable of the
>        goal, then :n:`destruct @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros` :n:`until
>        @ident; destruct @ident`. :n:`@one_term` must have an inductive type.
>        If :n:`@ident` is no longer dependent in the
>        goal after application of :n:`destruct`, it is erased. To avoid erasure,
>        use parentheses, as in :n:`destruct (@ident)`.
>      + :n:`@one_term` may contain holes that are denoted by “_”. In this case,
>        the tactic selects the first subterm that matches the pattern and performs
>        case analysis using that subterm.
>      + If :n:`@induction_arg` is a :n:`@natural`, then :n:`destruct @natural` behaves like
>        :n:`intros until @natural` followed by :n:`destruct` applied to the last
>        introduced hypothesis.
> 
>    :n:`@natural`
>      Equivalent to :tacn:`intros` :n:`until @natural` followed by `destruct` applied to
>      the last introduced hypothesis.

Reviewer: Note that this suggestion encompasses several changes:

- the note on `ident` being no longer dependent in the goal is not specific to the case where `ident` is a quantified variable of the goal
- `one_term` must have an inductive type was redundant with what is already written above and didn't belong in the middle of a bullet-point about `ident`
- the syntax case on `natural` was redundant with the corresponding bullet-point.

```suggestion
   :n:`@induction_arg`
     + If :n:`@one_term` (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
       is an identifier :n:`@ident`:
       + If :n:`@ident` denotes a quantified variable of the
         goal, then :n:`destruct @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros` :n:`until
         @ident; destruct @ident`.
       + If :n:`@ident` is no longer dependent in the
         goal after application of :n:`destruct`, it is erased. To avoid erasure,
         use parentheses, as in :n:`destruct (@ident)`.
     + :n:`@one_term` may contain holes that are denoted by “_”. In this case,
       the tactic selects the first subterm that matches the pattern and performs
       case analysis using that subterm.
     + If :n:`@induction_arg` is a :n:`@natural`, then :n:`destruct @natural` behaves like
       :n:`intros until @natural` followed by :n:`destruct` applied to the last
       introduced hypothesis.
```

      | @one_term_with_bindings

   Performs case analysis by generating a subgoal for each constructor of the
   inductive or co-inductive type selected by :n:`@induction_arg`.  The selected
   subterm, after possibly doing an :tacn:`intros`, must have
   an inductive or co-inductive type.  Unlike :tacn:`induction`,
   :tacn:`destruct` generates no induction hypothesis.

   In each new subgoal, the tactic replaces the selected subterm with the associated
   constructor (applied to its arguments).

   + If :n:`@one_term` (in :n:`@induction_arg`)
     is an identifier :n:`@ident` denoting a quantified variable of the
     goal, then :n:`destruct @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros` :n:`until

>      @ident; destruct @ident`. :n:`@one_term` must have an inductive type.

Reviewer: This paragraph is a bit mixed up between the specific `ident` case and the generic `one_term` case. Since this last sentence applies in all cases, it could be factorized somewhere.

     If :n:`@ident` is no longer dependent in the
     goal after application of :n:`destruct`, it is erased. To avoid erasure,

>      use parentheses, as in :n:`destruct (@ident)`.

Reviewer: This is said twice in case `ident` is a quantified variable of the goal or a hypothesis of the context. It would be worth factorizing this information in some unique place.

>      The :n:`@one_term` may contain holes that are denoted by “_”. In this case,

Reviewer: Since this is a separate case from the `ident` case, it would deserve a separate bullet-point.

     Equivalent to :tacn:`intros` :n:`until @natural` followed by `destruct` applied to
     the last introduced hypothesis.

   :n:`@ident` (in :n:`@induction_arg`)
     If :token:`ident` is a quantified variable in the conclusion

>      of the goal, then :n:`destruct @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros`

Reviewer: This whole thing is now redundant with the bullet points above.

     Makes the tactic equivalent to
     :tacn:`induction` :n:`{+, @induction_clause } @induction_principle`.

> .. _example_destruct_ind_concl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. _example_destruct_ind_concl:
```

Author: Yes, this was the cause.

     Makes the tactic equivalent to
     :tacn:`induction` :n:`{+, @induction_clause } @induction_principle`.

.. _example_destruct_ind_concl:

>    .. example:: :tacn:`destruct` on a type with a conclusion that is an inductive type

Reviewer: A less complex title would be:
```suggestion
   .. example:: :tacn:`destruct` called on an argument with premises
```

   each constructor of an inductive type.

   If the argument is :term:`dependent <dependent product>` in the conclusion or some
   hypotheses of the goal, the argument is replaced by the appropriate
   constructor in each of the resulting subgoals and induction
   hypotheses are added to the local context using names whose prefix
   is **IH**.  The tactic is similar to :tacn:`destruct`, except that
   `destruct` doesn't generate induction hypotheses.

   :n:`induction @one_term ...` also works when the type of :n:`@one_term` is a statement
   with premises and whose conclusion is inductive. In that case the tactic
   performs induction on the conclusion of the type of :n:`@one_term` and leaves the
   :term:`non-dependent premises <dependent premise>` of the type as subgoals.
   In the case of dependent products, the tactic tries to find an instance for
   which the induction principle applies and otherwise fails.

   Most parameters behave as they do in :tacn:`destruct`, with the following
   differences:

   + If :n:`@one_term` (in :n:`@induction_arg`)
     is an identifier :n:`@ident` denoting a quantified variable of the

>      conclusion of the goal, then :n:`induction @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros` :n:`until

Author: e.g., refers to `B` when the goal is `A -> B`?

Reviewer: In this case, I'm afraid that's the other meaning, i.e. the part below the `--------`.

     @ident; induction @ident`. :n:`@one_term` must have an inductive type.
     If :n:`@ident` is no longer dependent in the
     goal after application of :n:`induction`, it is erased. To avoid erasure,
     use parentheses, as in :n:`induction (@ident)`.
   + If :n:`@induction_arg` is a :n:`@natural`, then :n:`induction @natural` behaves like
     :n:`intros until @natural` followed by :n:`induction` applied to the last
     introduced hypothesis.

     .. note::
        For induction on a number, use the form `induction (number)`
        (which is not very interesting).

   + If :n:`@one_term` is a hypothesis :n:`@ident` of the context, and :n:`@ident`
     is no longer dependent in the goal after application of :n:`induction`,
     it is erased (to avoid erasure, use parentheses, as in
     :n:`induction (@ident)`).

   :n:`{+, @induction_clause }`

>      If no :n:`induction_principle` clause is provided, this is equivalent to doing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     If no :n:`@induction_principle` clause is provided, this is equivalent to doing
```

     :n:`induction` on the first :n:`@induction_clause` followed by :n:`destruct`
     on any subsequent clauses.

   :n:`@induction_principle`

>      :n:`one_term` specifies which :term:`induction principle` to use and, optionally,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     :n:`@one_term` specifies which :term:`induction principle` to use and, optionally,
```

   on the type of the goal.  (For example, if the local context
   contains :g:`n : nat` and the current goal is :g:`T` of type :g:`Prop`, then
   :n:`elim k` is equivalent to :tacn:`apply` :n:`nat_ind with (n:=k)` since
   `nat_ind` is for `Prop` goals.)

   More generally,
   :n:`elim @one_term` also works when the type of :n:`@one_term` is a statement
   with premises and whose conclusion is inductive. In that case the tactic
   performs induction on the conclusion of the type of :n:`@one_term` and leaves the
   :term:`non-dependent premises <dependent premise>` of the type as subgoals.
   In the case of dependent products, the tactic tries to find an instance for
   which the induction principle applies and otherwise fails.

  :n:`with @bindings`   (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
    Explicitly gives instances to the premises of the type of :n:`@one_term`
    (see :ref:`bindings`).

  :n:`{? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }`
    Allows explicitly giving an induction principle :n:`@one_term` that
    is not the standard one for the underlying inductive type of :n:`@one_term`. The
    :n:`@bindings` clause allows instantiating premises of the type of
    :n:`@one_term`.

> .. tacn:: eelim @one_term_with_bindings {? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }

Reviewer: Don't forget to indent `eelim`.

Induction
---------

> .. tacn:: induction {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

Reviewer: I think it would make sense to move the definition of `induction_principle` here.

   Applies an :term:`induction principle` to generate a subgoal for
   each constructor of an inductive type.

   If the argument is :term:`dependent <dependent product>` in the conclusion or some
   hypotheses of the goal, the argument is replaced by the appropriate
   constructor in each of the resulting subgoals and induction
   hypotheses are added to the local context using names whose prefix
   is **IH**.  The tactic is similar to :tacn:`destruct`, except that
   `destruct` doesn't generate induction hypotheses.

>    There are several cases:

Reviewer: Note that none of these is specific to `induction` (this is a repetition of what is described in `destruct` so I don't know if we want to keep it). BTW, I like this description with bullet points more than the equivalent documentation scattered around for `destruct` so I would even suggest using this form above.

Author: When the behavior is identical, it's probably better not to repeat it.  So I dropped the text of your previous comment.  If the others were dropped, you would need to mentally substitute "induction" for "destruct" in most of them, so I thought it better to repeat them.  I could add a sentence here before the points saying they're repetitions but with "induction" instead of "destruct".  destruct doesn't describe the induction principle, so that should stay.

I agree that bullet points look nicer, but the other format makes it much easier to scan for elements of the syntax.  I suppose you could have bullet points with the form `. <syntax>: text`, but not sure that would be an improvement.  Would you want to do this change pervasively (and when) or just for some tactics/commands?

Your thoughts?

Author: OTOH, if "induction" is a very commonly used tactic, that would be a small point in favor of repetition.

Reviewer: Yes, `induction` is a very commonly used tactic, but so is `destruct` and I prefer having a clear link to `destruct` for the description of how it treats its argument rather than a repetition.

No, I don't want to pervasively go for bullet points in the manual. I quite like the way that we have decided to document syntax elements. However, this case is a bit different IMHO because the bullet points represent *alternatives* and some alternatives are not even part of the cases that one can see from the syntax (`ident`, which is a sub-case of `one_term`).

So what I suggested was to reuse the way it was in the description of `induction`, i.e. first the alternative ways of providing the main argument (with bullet points) then the other syntax elements (with the usual style for describing those).

Author: OK, we're agreed on the style, but I'm still not sure what change you want me to make. Do you want me to copy the bullet points to `destruct` with substitution of `destruct` as needed?  Or what?

Reviewer: > Do you want me to copy the bullet points to `destruct` with substitution of `destruct` as needed?

Yes, something like that (+ the clean-up of the redundant info that this would create).

   + If :n:`@one_term` (in :n:`@induction_arg`)
     is an identifier :n:`@ident` denoting a quantified variable of the
     conclusion of the goal, then :n:`induction @ident` behaves like :tacn:`intros` :n:`until
     @ident; induction @ident`. If :n:`@ident` is no longer dependent in the
     goal after application of :n:`induction`, it is erased. To avoid erasure,
     use parentheses, as in :n:`induction (@ident)`.
   + If :n:`@induction_arg` is a :n:`@natural`, then :n:`induction @natural` behaves like
     :n:`intros until @natural` followed by :n:`induction` applied to the last
     introduced hypothesis.

     .. note::
        For simple induction on a number, use the form `induction (number)`
        (which is not very interesting).

   + If :n:`@one_term` is a hypothesis :n:`@ident` of the context, and :n:`@ident`
     is no longer dependent in the goal after application of :n:`induction`,
     it is erased (to avoid erasure, use parentheses, as in
     :n:`induction (@ident)`).
   + The argument :n:`@one_term` can also be a pattern in which holes are denoted
     by “_”. In this case, the tactic checks that all subterms matching the

>      pattern in the conclusion and the hypotheses are compatible and

Reviewer: To be changed like in the case of `destruct`. It doesn't do this check. It just finds the first pattern that matches. As in this example:

```coq
Goal forall n m, n + m = m + n.
intros.
induction _.
```

     performs induction using this subterm.

   :n:`{+, @induction_clause }`

>      If no using clause is provided, this is equivalent to doing :n:`induction` on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     If no :n:`@induction_principle` is provided, this is equivalent to doing :n:`induction` on the
```

     first :n:`@induction_clause` followed by :n:`destruct` on any subsequent clauses.

>    :n:`using @one_term {? with @bindings }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`@induction_principle`
```

   is **IH**.  The tactic is similar to :tacn:`destruct`, except that
   `destruct` doesn't generate induction hypotheses.

   :n:`induction @one_term ...` also works when the type of :n:`@one_term` is a statement
   with premises and whose conclusion is inductive. In that case the tactic
   performs induction on the conclusion of the type of :n:`@one_term` and leaves the
   :term:`non-dependent premises <dependent premise>` of the type as subgoals.
   In the case of dependent products, the tactic tries to find an instance for
   which the induction principle applies and otherwise fails.

   Most parameters behave as they do in :tacn:`destruct`, with the following

>    differences:

Reviewer: There might be a misunderstanding. What is described below do not represent differences with `destruct`. On the contrary, `destruct` interprets its main argument in the same way.

Author: I struck out the part about differences.  Are we good now?

      :undocumented:

   .. exn:: Unable to find an instance for the variables @ident … @ident.

      Use the :n:`with @bindings` clause or the :tacn:`einduction` tactic instead.

   .. example::

      .. coqtop:: reset all

         Lemma induction_test : forall n:nat, n = n -> n <= n.
         intros n H.
         induction n.
         exact (le_n 0).

   .. example:: :tacn:`induction` with :n:`@occurrences`

      .. coqtop:: reset all

         Lemma induction_test2 : forall n:nat, n = n -> n <= n.
         intros.
         induction n in H |-.
         Show 2.

   .. tacn:: einduction {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

      Behaves like :tacn:`induction` except that it does not fail if
      some dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` is not inferrable. Instead,
      the unresolved premises are posed as existential variables to be inferred
      later, in the same way as :tacn:`eapply` does.

.. tacn:: elim @one_term_with_bindings {? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }

   An older, more basic induction tactic.  Unlike :tacn:`induction`, ``elim`` only
   modifies the goal; it does not modify the :term:`local context`.  We recommend

>    using :tacn:`induction` instead where possible.  :n:`@one_term` must have an inductive

Reviewer: Since everything else also applies to `induction`, the main description of `elim` could really stop after this second sentence.

Author: I trimmed only this paragraph and kept "We recommend using induction...".  Did you want me to drop more here (e.g. up to `tacn:: eelim`)?

Reviewer: You can also remove the paragraph:

>More generally, elim [...] and otherwise fails.

Since it's a repetition of what is (now) said for `induction`.

      Use the :n:`with @bindings` clause or the :tacn:`einduction` tactic instead.

   .. example::

      .. coqtop:: reset all

         Lemma induction_test : forall n:nat, n = n -> n <= n.
         intros n H.
         induction n.
         exact (le_n 0).

   .. example:: :n:`induction` with :n:`@occurrences`

      .. coqtop:: reset all

         Lemma induction_test2 : forall n:nat, n = n -> n <= n.
         intros.
         induction n in H |-.
         Show 2.

   .. tacn:: einduction {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

      Behaves like :tacn:`induction` except that it does not fail if
      some dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` is not inferrable. Instead,
      the unresolved premises are posed as existential variables to be inferred
      later, in the same way as :tacn:`eapply` does.

.. tacn:: elim @one_term_with_bindings {? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }

   An older, more basic induction tactic.  Unlike :tacn:`induction`, ``elim`` only
   modifies the goal; it does not modify the :term:`local context`.  We recommend
   using :tacn:`induction` instead where possible.

>   :n:`with @bindings`   (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
>     Explicitly gives instances to the premises of the type of :n:`@one_term`
>     (see :ref:`bindings`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`with @bindings`   (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
     Explicitly gives instances to the premises of the type of :n:`@one_term`
     (see :ref:`bindings`).
```

>   :n:`{? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }`
>     Allows explicitly giving an induction principle :n:`@one_term` that
>     is not the standard one for the underlying inductive type of :n:`@one_term`. The
>     :n:`@bindings` clause allows instantiating premises of the type of
>     :n:`@one_term`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`{? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }`
     Allows explicitly giving an induction principle :n:`@one_term` that
     is not the standard one for the underlying inductive type of :n:`@one_term`. The
     :n:`@bindings` clause allows instantiating premises of the type of
     :n:`@one_term`.
```

   In the case of dependent products, the tactic tries to find an instance for
   which the induction principle applies and otherwise fails.

>    Most parameters behave as they do in :tacn:`destruct`:

Reviewer: Right. So now the question becomes if we want to repeat the information that's already supposed to be available in `destruct`. Up to you.

      induction n.
      exact (le_n 0).

> .. example:: :tacn:`induction` with :n:`@occurrences`

Reviewer: That's not a very convincing example since it doesn't behave differently than without the `@occurrences` clause.

Here is an example where it does behave differently:

```coq
Lemma induction_test : forall n:nat, n = n -> n <= n.
intros.
induction n in H |-.
Show 2.
```

However, I have no idea if there exists a *useful* example of this clause with `induction`.

Author: If it's not useful then maybe drop the example and also consider whether to drop `occurrences` from the syntax.

Reviewer: > also consider whether to drop `occurrences` from the syntax

I guess that it should be kept for uniformity with `destruct` (where it can be more clearly useful). And there might be use cases that I'm neglecting.

   .. coqtop:: reset all

      Lemma comm x y : x + y = y + x.
      induction y in x |-   *.
      Show 2.

>    .. exn:: Not an inductive product.

Reviewer: Move the error messages up in the description of `induction`.

      :undocumented:

   .. exn:: Unable to find an instance for the variables @ident … @ident.

>       Use the variant :tacn:`elim` `… with …` instead.

Reviewer: Should recommend using the `with @bindings` clause or the `einduction` variant (but not mention `elim`).

> .. tacn:: einduction {+, @induction_clause } {? @induction_principle }

Reviewer: Much like in the case analysis section, `einduction` should be indented to appear as a variant of `induction` and `ecase` should appear as a variant of `case`.

   Behaves like :tacn:`induction` except that it does not fail if
   some dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` is not inferrable. Instead,
   the unresolved premises are posed as existential variables to be inferred
   later, in the same way as :tacn:`eapply` does.

.. tacn:: elim @one_term_with_bindings {? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }

   An older, more basic induction tactic.  We recommend using :tacn:`induction`

>    instead where possible.  :n:`@one_term` must have an inductive

Reviewer: Interesting, that the argument of `induction` must have an inductive type was forgotten in the description of `induction`.

Author: I slipped it into the first bullet point.  Perhaps it should also be stated in "destruct"?

Reviewer: It already appears in the description of `destruct`, although maybe not as clearly as it should:

>the inductive or co-inductive type in the one_term in induction_arg

"in the one_term" doesn't make it sufficiently clear that the type of one_term is the inductive (or co-inductive) type.

Author: A couple questions:
- For `A -> B -> C`, is it correct to say that A and B are premises and C is the conclusion?  This would be a second sense for "conclusion", which is currently defined as the statement to be proven.  Maybe say "the conclusion of a type" to clarify?
- Is it worth making "premise" a defined term? It seems fairly generic.  We could also say A and B are "antecedents".  That terminology is used twice in the doc with that meaning.
- Is there a proper term for `A -> B`?  An implication?

Reviewer: >For `A -> B -> C`, is it correct to say that A and B are premises and C is the conclusion?  This would be a second sense for "conclusion", which is currently defined as the statement to be proven.  Maybe say "the conclusion of a type" to clarify?

Yes, this is correct. And yes, "conclusion" has this double meaning. I've signalled this when we've documented the other meaning (I was worried about the confusion that this would create).

>Is it worth making "premise" a defined term? It seems fairly generic. We could also say A and B are "antecedents". That terminology is used twice in the doc with that meaning.

Yes, I guess it would be worth (in the place where function types and dependent / non-dependent premises are explained). I am not used to seeing the terminology "antecedent" in this case, so I would avoid it.

>Is there a proper term for `A -> B`?  An implication?

Yes, an "implication" (with the propositional view) or a non-dependent function type (with the programming language / computational view).

>    type.  The tactic applies the appropriate :term:`induction principle` based

Reviewer: The fact that the tactic selects the "appropriate" induction principle (among the various ones that are automatically generated) when the `@induction_principle` clause is not provided is something else that could be added to the description of `induction`.

Author: Done.  Would it be better or worse to say "based on the _sort_ of the goal"?

Reviewer: It would be better indeed.

   on the type of the goal.  (For example, if the local context
   contains :g:`n : nat` and the current goal is :g:`T` of type :g:`Prop`, then
   :n:`elim k` is equivalent to :tacn:`apply` :n:`nat_ind with (n:=k)` since
   `nat_ind` is for `Prop` goals.)

>    ``elim`` only modifies the goal; it does not modify the :term:`local context`.

Reviewer: That's the main difference between `induction` and `elim` so this should be the thing to put forward in its documentation.

   More generally,

>    :n:`elim @one_term` also works when the type of :n:`@one_term` is a statement

Reviewer: This paragraph also entirely applies to `induction` (and was forgotten from its documentation).

Author: Forgotten?  Did I ever know in the first place :-)?

I copied the paragraph, but I think it overlaps a bit with the text in the preceeding paragraph: "and induction hypotheses are added to the local context using names whose prefix is **IH**"

Reviewer: >Forgotten? Did I ever know in the first place :-)?

Forgotten but not by you. Before this PR.

   with premises and whose conclusion is inductive. In that case the tactic
   performs induction on the conclusion of the type of :n:`@one_term` and leaves the
   :term:`non-dependent premises <dependent premise>` of the type as subgoals.
   In the case of dependent products, the tactic tries to find an instance for
   which the induction principle applies and otherwise fails.

>   :n:`with @bindings`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :n:`with @bindings` (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
```

    Explicitly gives instances to the premises of the type of :n:`@one_term`
    (see :ref:`bindings`).

  :n:`{? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }`
    Allows explicitly giving an induction principle :n:`@one_term` that
    is not the standard one for the underlying inductive type of :n:`@one_term`. The
    :n:`@bindings` clause allows instantiating premises of the type of
    :n:`@one_term`.

.. tacn:: eelim @one_term_with_bindings {? using @one_term {? with @bindings } }

   If the type of :n:`@one_term` has dependent premises, this turns them into
   existential variables to be resolved later on.

.. tacn:: elimtype @one_term

   The argument :token:`type` must be inductively defined. :n:`elimtype I` is
   equivalent to :tacn:`cut` :n:`I. intro Hn; elim Hn;` :tacn:`clear` :n:`Hn.` Therefore the
   hypothesis :g:`Hn` will not appear in the context(s) of the subgoal(s).
   Conversely, if :g:`t` is a :n:`@one_term` of (inductive) type :g:`I` that does
   not occur in the goal, then :n:`elim t` is equivalent to

>    :n:`elimtype I; 2:` :tacn:`exact` `t.`

Reviewer: The syntax is incorrect. Here's a fix:

```suggestion
   :n:`elimtype I; only 2:` :tacn:`exact` `t.`
```

.. tacn:: simple induction {| @ident | @natural }

   Behaves like :n:`intros until {| @ident | @natural }; elim @ident` when
   :n:`@ident` is a quantified variable of the goal.

.. tacn:: dependent induction @ident {? {| generalizing | in } {+ @ident } } {? using @one_term }

>    The *experimental* tactic :tacn:`dependent induction` performs induction-

Reviewer: There shouldn't be a newline between `induction-` and `inversion`. It introduces a spurious space.

   inversion on an instantiated inductive predicate. One needs to first

>    :cmd:`Require` the Coq.Program.Equality module to use this tactic. The tactic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :cmd:`Require` the `Coq.Program.Equality` module to use this tactic. The tactic
```

   state lemmas without resorting to manually adding these equalities and
   still get enough information in the proofs.

   :n:`{| generalizing | in } {+ @ident }`
     First generalizes the goal by the given variables so that they are universally
     quantified in the goal.  This is generally what one wants to do with
     variables that are inside constructors in the induction hypothesis.  The other
     ones need not be further generalized.

   There is a long example of :tacn:`dependent induction` and an explanation
   of the underlying technique :ref:`here <dependent-induction-examples>`.

> .. example::

Reviewer: It would probably make sense to indent this example (and the `.. seealso`) to make them part of the description of `dependent induction`. Same thing above with the examples about `induction`.

   A primitive tactic to start a proof by induction. Generally,
   higher-level tactics such as :tacn:`induction` or :tacn:`elim`
   are easier to use.

   :n:`@ident` is the name of
   the induction hypothesis. :n:`@natural` tells on which
   premise of the current goal the induction acts, starting from 1,
   counting both dependent and non-dependent products, but skipping local
   definitions. The current lemma must be composed of at
   least :n:`@natural` products.

   As in a fix expression, induction hypotheses must be used on
   structurally smaller arguments. The verification that inductive proof
   arguments are correct is done only when registering the
   lemma in the global environment. To know if the use of induction hypotheses
   is correct during the interactive development of a proof, use
   the command :cmd:`Guarded`.

   :n:`with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } {? %{ struct @name %} } : @type ) }`
     Starts a proof by mutual induction. The statements to be proven
     are :n:`forall @simple_binder__i, @type__i`.
     The identifiers :n:`@ident` (including the first one before the `with` clause)
     are the names of the induction hypotheses. The identifiers

>      :n:`@name` are the respective names of the premises on which the induction

Reviewer: We can maybe clarify even further like this:
```suggestion
     :n:`@name` (in the `{ struct ... }` clauses) are the respective names of the premises on which the induction
```

     is performed in the statements to be proved (if not given, Coq
     guesses what they are).

.. tacn:: cofix @ident {? with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } : @type ) } }

   Starts a proof by co-induction. The :n:`@ident`\s (including the first one
   before the `with` clause) are the
   names of the co-induction hypothesis. As in a cofix expression,
   the use of induction hypotheses must be guarded by a constructor. The
   verification that the use of co-inductive hypotheses is correct is
   done only at the time of registering the lemma in the global environment. To
   know if the use of co-induction hypotheses is correct at some time of

>    the interactive development of a proof, use the command :cmd`Guarded`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the interactive development of a proof, use the command :cmd:`Guarded`.
```

   least :n:`@natural` products.

   As in a fix expression, induction hypotheses must be used on
   structurally smaller arguments. The verification that inductive proof
   arguments are correct is done only when registering the
   lemma in the global environment. To know if the use of induction hypotheses
   is correct during the interactive development of a proof, use
   the command :cmd:`Guarded`.

   :n:`with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } {? %{ struct @name %} } : @type ) }`
     Starts a proof by mutual induction. The statements to be proven
     are :n:`forall @simple_binder__i, @type__i`.
     The identifiers :n:`@ident` (including the first one before the `with` clause)
     are the names of the induction hypotheses. The identifiers
     :n:`@name` (in the `{ struct ... }` clauses) are the respective names of
     the premises on which the induction
     is performed in the statements to be proved (if not given, Coq
     guesses what they are).

.. tacn:: cofix @ident {? with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } : @type ) } }

   Starts a proof by co-induction. The :n:`@ident`\s (including the first one
   before the `with` clause) are the

>    names of the co-induction hypothesis. As in a cofix expression,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   names of the co-induction hypotheses. As in a cofix expression,
```

Author: Got it.  One of the more obscure ways to form a plural in English.

      inversion H.

   This technique works with any inductive predicate. In fact, the

>    :tacn:`dependent induction` tactic is just a wrapper around the ``induction``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :tacn:`dependent induction` tactic is just a wrapper around the :tacn:`induction`
```

   based on the definition found in ``Coq.Program.Equality``.

.. seealso:: :tacn:`functional induction`

.. tacn:: fix @ident @natural {? with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } {? %{ struct @name %} } : @type ) } }

   .. insertprodn simple_binder simple_binder

   .. prodn::
      simple_binder ::= @name
      | ( {+ @name } : @term )

   A primitive tactic to start a proof by induction. Generally,
   higher-level tactics such as :tacn:`induction` or :tacn:`elim`
   are easier to use.

   :n:`@ident` is the name of
   the induction hypothesis. :n:`@natural` tells on which
   premise of the current goal the induction acts, starting from 1,
   counting both dependent and non-dependent products, but skipping local
   definitions. The current lemma must be composed of at
   least :n:`@natural` products.

   As in a fix expression, induction hypotheses must be used on
   structurally smaller arguments. The verification that inductive proof
   arguments are correct is done only when registering the
   lemma in the global environment. To know if the use of induction hypotheses
   is correct during the interactive development of a proof, use

>    the command :cmd:`Guarded` (see Section :ref:`requestinginformation`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the command :cmd:`Guarded`.
```

   :n:`with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } {? %{ struct @name %} } : @type ) }`
     Starts a proof by mutual induction. The statements to be proven
     are :n:`forall @simple_binder__i, @type__i`.

>      The identifiers :n:`@ident` are the names of the induction hypotheses. The identifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The identifiers :n:`@ident` (including the first one before the `with` clause) are the names of the induction hypotheses. The identifiers
```

>      :n:`@ident` are the respective names of the premises on which the induction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     :n:`@name` are the respective names of the premises on which the induction
```

(there used to be prime symbols to distinguish the two sets of `ident` that were lost during the Sphinx translation, see https://coq.inria.fr/distrib/V8.7.2/refman/tactics.html#hevea_tactic127).

Author: OK?

     is performed in the statements to be proved (if not given, Coq
     guesses what they are).

.. tacn:: cofix @ident {? with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } : @type ) } }

>    .. todo:

Reviewer: What is this?

>    Starts a proof by co-induction. The first :n:`@ident` is the

Reviewer: This "first" word is problematic since all the `ident` are the names of co-induction hypotheses but only the first one is provided if there is no `with` clause. So either use plural from the beginning, or apply this suggestion:

```suggestion
   Starts a proof by co-induction. The identifier :n:`@ident` is the
```

Author: OK?

   name of the co-induction hypothesis. As in a cofix expression,
   the use of induction hypotheses must be guarded by a constructor. The
   verification that the use of co-inductive hypotheses is correct is
   done only at the time of registering the lemma in the global environment. To
   know if the use of co-induction hypotheses is correct at some time of

>    the interactive development of a proof, use the command ``Guarded``
>    (see Section :ref:`requestinginformation`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the interactive development of a proof, use the command :cmd:`Guarded`.
```

   :n:`with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } : @type ) }`
     Starts a proof by mutual co-induction. The statements to be
     proven are :n:`forall @simple_binder__i, @type__i`.

>      The identifiers :n:`@ident` are the names of the co-induction hypotheses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The identifiers :n:`@ident` (including the first one before the `with` clause) are the names of the co-induction hypotheses.
```

   arguments are correct is done only when registering the
   lemma in the global environment. To know if the use of induction hypotheses
   is correct during the interactive development of a proof, use
   the command :cmd:`Guarded`.

   :n:`with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } {? %{ struct @name %} } : @type ) }`
     Starts a proof by mutual induction. The statements to be proven
     are :n:`forall @simple_binder__i, @type__i`.
     The identifiers :n:`@ident` (including the first one before the `with` clause)
     are the names of the induction hypotheses. The identifiers
     :n:`@name` are the respective names of the premises on which the induction
     is performed in the statements to be proved (if not given, Coq
     guesses what they are).

.. tacn:: cofix @ident {? with {+ ( @ident {* @simple_binder } : @type ) } }

>    Starts a proof by co-induction. The :n:`@ident`\s (including the first one

Reviewer: There's a lack of consistency in the description of `fix` and `cofix`. Either the main description should focus on the case without the `with` clause and `ident` should be then singular (in both cases) or it should already encompass the optional use of the `with` clause and then it should be plural in both cases (possibly with the `s` in parentheses).
